Adding Testing and Debugging section to Java SDK docs (#350)
temporalio/documentation: docs/java-testing-and-debugging.md

---
id: java-testing-and-debugging
title: Testing and Debugging
sidebar_label: Testing and Debugging
---

The Temporal Java SDK provide test framework support to facilitate Workflow unit and integration testing.
The test framework provides a`TestWorkflowEnvironment` class which includes an in-memory implementation
of the Temporal service that supports automatic time skipping. This allows you to 
easily test long-running workflows in seconds, without having to change your workflow code.

> You can use the provided `TestWorkflowEnvironment` with an Java unit testing framework on your choice,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the provided `TestWorkflowEnvironment` with a Java unit testing framework of your choice,
```

such as JUnit.

> The following code implements an unit tests for the `HelloActivity` sample:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code implements unit tests for the `HelloActivity` sample:
```

> ```java

Reviewer: Can we snipsync these examples?
Looks like they come from the samples-java repo?

Author: sure. i would rather do it across the board (all sdks) rather than just here now. if you are ok with it i would do a separate PR for that

        worker = testEnv.newWorker(TASK_QUEUE);
        // Register your workflow implementations
        worker.registerWorkflowImplementationTypes(GreetingWorkflowImpl.class);

        client = testEnv.getWorkflowClient();
    }

    // Clean up test environment after tests are completed
    @After
    public void tearDown() {
        testEnv.close();
    }

    @Test
    public void testMockedActivity() {
        // Mock our workflow activity
        GreetingActivities activities = mock(GreetingActivities.class);
        when(activities.composeGreeting("Hello", "World")).thenReturn("Hello Mocked World!");
        worker.registerActivitiesImplementations(activities);

        // Start test environment
        testEnv.start();

        // Create the workflow stub
        GreetingWorkflow workflow =
                client.newWorkflowStub(
                        GreetingWorkflow.class, WorkflowOptions.newBuilder().setTaskQueue(TASK_QUEUE).build());

        // Execute our workflow waiting for it to complete
        String greeting = workflow.getGreeting("World");
        assertEquals("Hello Mocked World!", greeting);
    }
}
```

> In addition to writing unit and integration tests, debugging your workflows is also a very

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to writing unit and integration tests, debugging your Workflows is also a very
```

> valuable testing tool. You can debug your workflow code using a debugger provided 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
valuable testing tool. You can debug your Workflow code using a debugger provided 
```

by your favorite Java IDE.

> Note that when debugging your workflow code, the Temporal Java SDK includes deadlock detection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that when debugging your Workflow code, the Temporal Java SDK includes deadlock detection
```

> which fails a workflow task in case the code blocks over a second without relinquishing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which fails a Workflow Task in case the code blocks over a second without relinquishing
```

execution control. Because of this you can often encounter the `PotentialDeadlockException`

> exception while stepping through workflow code during debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exception while stepping through Workflow code during debugging.
```

To alleviate this issue, you can set the `TEMPORAL_DEBUG` environment variable to true before debugging your

> workflow code. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workflow code. 
```
